# Apache Configuration File’s Structure and Best Practices

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. sites](#1-sites)
- [2. mods](#2-mods)
- [3. conf](#3-conf)
- [4. log](#4-log)
- [5. webroot](#5-webroot)

<!-- /TOC -->

- In Debian based systems Apache configuration files are located in the `/etc/apache2` directory.
- The main Apache configuration file is `/etc/apache2/apache2.conf`.
- The ports that Apache will listen to are specified in the `/etc/apache2/ports.conf` file.

## 1. sites

- **Apache Virtual Hosts files** are located in the `/etc/apache2/sites-available` directory. The configuration files found in this directory are not used by Apache unless they are linked to the `/etc/apache2/sites-enabled` directory.
- You can activate a virtual host directive by creating a symlink using the `a2ensite` command from the configuration files found in the `sites-available` directory to the `sites-enabled` directory. To deactivate a virtual host use the `a2dissite` command.
- It is highly recommended to follow the standard naming convention, for example if your domain name is `mydomain.com` then the domain configuration file should be named `/etc/apache2/sites-available/mydomain.com.conf`

## 2. mods

- Configuration files that are used for loading various Apache modules are located in the `/etc/apache2/mods-available` directory. Configurations in the `mods-available` directory can be enabled by creating a symlink to the `/etc/apache2/mods-enable` directory using the `a2enconf` command and disabled with the `a2disconf` command.

## 3. conf

- Files containing global configuration fragments are stored in the `/etc/apache2/conf-available` directory. Files in the `conf-available` directory can be enabled by creating a symlink to the `/etc/apache2/conf-enabled` using the `a2enconf` command and disabled with the `a2disconf` command.

## 4. log

- Apache log files (`access.log` and `error.log`) are located in the `/var/log/apache` directory. It is recommended to use different access and error log files for each virtual host.

## 5. webroot

You can set your domain document root directory to any location you want. The most common locations for webroot include:

- /home/<user_name>/<site_name>
- /var/www/<site_name>
- /var/www/html/<site_name>
- /opt/<site_name>
